---
layout: post
title:Synthetics RSS Explorer 
description: > 
     A tool for examining the dwell time and cutting probability distributions
     of single point mutations
permalink: point_mutants
---

---


To examine how each base in an RSS contributes the dynamics of recombination, we
selected an endogenous sequence (V4-57-1) to serve as a reference sequence and
systematically made point mutations across the heptamer, spacer, and nonamer
regions and examined their behavior. In the plots below, the behavior of the
reference sequence is shown in grey with a chosen point mutation in bright blue.
The heatmaps show the effect of each mutation with respect to the reference
sequence, with a green hue indicating a decrease and a purple hue representing
an increase in the corresponding property. Glyphs with a yellow circle in front
designate the original nucleotide in that position of the reference sequence. A
cross (x) represents a mutation that wasn't studied. 

To examine the looping frequency,
dwell time distribution, and posterior probability of the cleavage probability,
click on a point mutation in the heatmap. The selected point mutation will be
highlighted in all three heatmaps and the distributions will be plotted in blue.
Pressing `ESC` on your keyboard will clear your selection and clicking the
"Reset" button will clear the plots back to only the reference state. 

This figure was created using the [Bokeh plotting
library](http://bokeh.pydata.org). The code used to generate this
figure can be found on the [code]({{site.baseurl}}/code) page of this website. An offline version of the figure [can be downloaded here]({{site.baseurl}}/figures/point_mutation_explorer.html). 

<center>

{% include point_voyager.html %}

</center>
