---
layout: post
title: Code
img: banner.gif
permalink: code
---

---

There are several different categories of code used in this work. in the sections below, we describe each category and provide links to their contents where necessary.

## The `tpm` Matlab Module
This module, available from the [associated GitHub
repository](https://github.com/rpgroup-pboc/vdj_recombination), is used
during the acquisition and direct measurement from raw image data of
tethered beads. It is implemented as previously described in [Lovely *et
al.* PNAS, 112(14) 2015](https://www.pnas.org/content/112/14/E1715) and
[Johnson *et al* Nucleic Acids Research, 40(16)
2012.](https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/40/16/7728/1028173).

## The `vdj` Python Module
This module, written explicitly for this work, is composed of a variety of
Python functions useful for the processing, analysis, and presentation of
data. This module is also available from the [associated GitHub
repository](https://github.com/rpgroup-pboc/vdj_recombination).

## Python Processing Script

We used a single Python script
[`compile_data.py`]({{site.baseurl}}/code/processing/compile_data.py) which
extracts measurements from a series of `.mat` files that are produced via the
`tpm` module.

## Python Analysis Scripts
These are Python files which can be run independently from the command line
and perform data analysis processes, such as parameter inference and
bootstrapping. 

* [**`looping_frequency_bootstrap.py`**]({{site.baseurl}}/code/analysis/looping_frequency_bootstrap.py): This script performs the bootstrapping analysis of the looping frequencies. *Necessary data sets:*
    + [Compiled looping events]({{site.baseurl}}/data/compiled_looping_events.csv)

* [**`pooled_cutting_probability.py`**]({{site.baseurl}}/code/analysis/pooled_cutting_probability.py): This script calculates the summary statistics for the cleavage probability of each sequence and numerically evaluates the log posterior over a range of probabilities. *Necessary data sets:* 
    + [Compiled paired complex fates]({{site.baseurl}}/data/compiled_bead_fates.csv)

* [**`leaving_rate_inference.py`**]({{site.baseurl}}/code/analysis/leaving_rate_inference.py): This script performs the parameter inference of the leaving rates assuming exponentially distributed dwell paired complex dwell times. *Necessary materials*: 
    + [Compiled paired complex dwell times]({{site.baseurl}}/data/compiled_dwell_times.csv)
    + [`.stan` inferential model]({{site.baseurl}}/code/stan/expon_dwell_model.stan)


## Python Figure Scripts 
These are Python files which can be run independently from the command line and produce all data-based figures in the work, including the interactive figures. 


{% for fig in site.data.main_figs %}
<article class="post">

<a class="post-thumbnail" style="background-image: url({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/{{fig.pic}})" href="{{site.baseurl}}/figures/{{fig.pdf}}"> </a>

<div class="post-content">
<b class="post-title"><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/code/figures/{{fig.file}}">{{fig.title}}</a></b>
<p> {{fig.desc}}</p>

<i>Necessary Data Sets </i><br/>
{% for ds in fig.req %}
<a style="font-size: 0.9em;" href="{{site.baseurl}}/data/{{ds.dataset}}"> - {{ds.title}} </a><br/>
{% endfor %}
</div>
</article>
{%endfor%}